hi everyone welcome to the dynamic data
and capabilities working group meeting
thank you for joining I'm going to be
sharing my screen with with today's
notes start recording so can everyone
put their name at list of attendees
please going to do that myself I'm going
to paste the Crypt pad URL here - oh
it's so weird
okay I hate I had some sorry I'm going
to talking about yourself please all
right can you add yourself to do list of
attendees Yeah right there's a few of us
I don't think anyone you need to have
anyone taking notes I can do that myself
all right so I was putting myself before
much here but much he put himself first
much you'd want to go ahead and give
your week by weekly update
yes I didn't get anything done that week
I'm still working on load testing for
people
yeah pad and you're in the booth
integration but I'm mainly blocked by
some bugs in your testing range after
revising and also lately P chicken and
egg problems which involved affected
when divorce depends on the deputy peace
war but removals is going to be
discovery module so it should not depend
on this one being created and that's
currently still unresolved and I don't
know what to do about that okay we
should it's been hanging around for a
few weeks that problem we probably
should drop in in the next Jessop FS
MIDI and and just just said that were
blocked on on that and also ping ping
that issue
I can I can do that thing that issue you
can you pass that that issue here so
that I know exactly which one it is much
in the liquid panels
yes thank you anymore
it's much II know that really okay thank
you
[Music]
about the chicken egg problems that is
also affecting lots of my other modules
because everything that's a bit more
advanced and we'll current interface so
far we try our direct access through
swamp so there should be a way to access
this form directly why things are being
created okay so this is it's bigger than
just rendezvous okay yeah will will I'll
do my bit to press there's a PFS on to
try on to coming up with a solution for
well maybe to be coming up with the
solution for this about I don't think
there's a problem you only that one PR
that's wrong you suggest a few FS maybe
one should be created instead yeah I
think we should that's currently like
there's an issue with all these these
modules it's currently blocking progress
on here here and here
chicken and egg what's the solution and
then people will want to discuss that
the solution I guess another issue and
then and then try to track this the
resolving of that on that issue I think
yeah there should be an issue so part of
it is actually I think part of it is in
the DP DP next refactor so I don't know
if that's maybe we want to make sure
it's included so this is the link to the
lipid EP next issue and I think it's
part of that that these problems can
self but I'm not really sure I can also
edit link to DPR okay I will screen so
everyone sees what I'm doing yep
okay I'll try I'll track this one make
sure that that it's this is included
here well make sure no ask the vids or
whoever is maintaining whippy-tippy
nowadays I also know edit a link to new
PR that adds removal suggest IVFs but I
think any meet there isn't the right
place instead it should be part of the
PP yeah
agree okay okay thank you much
alright so Gonzalo can you go next
/ so as I wrote in the notes I don't
have that much to talk about this couple
of weeks so be nasty couple weeks ago
was at ipfs that day we did discuss some
stuff about the rbt's and there was
quite quite cool poster sessions and
also deep dive sessions on that subtler
did a really good job on one kind of
spreading spreading the message in
whatever and what's been done and what
are the open issues and whatnot so I was
super interesting as well but haven't
had much time to work on anything else
though that's nice yeah I'm super bummed
had to miss that so I kind of gave a bit
a bit here and there to try to share but
I I heard he did a great job presenting
that your star stuff I'm going to be
talk I'm going to demo here later a bit
more about pure star but your star
integration on your pie that I'm working
on should be deploying that tomorrow but
yeah it's a lot a lot of recent work
thank you for for your update masala so
I'm I'm next
so let's see let's let me share my
screen again
all right cool so where was I here okay
so we good news we should be using clear
pads officially on the next meetings and
the script path if it's all working
I mean if it's not working we shouldn't
have a meeting at all so that's the
official stance on using pure plan on on
the meetings
doing a bit of dog fooding on that so
it's past two weeks so it was me coming
from from a short vacation and I've been
working on leftovers of peer started to
making it ready to be able to power to
three decentralized apps of peer pads
this classified which is something bad
and I couldn't be here today with
personal things busy with personal
things with Amber I create is going to
be showing on expect on the centralized
web summits were also going to be
demoing peer pad using beer star and
we're also going to be conducting a
workshop on showing people how to create
centralized apps without blockchain and
namely we're going to to do a Tudor to
do app example app which were were I
think it's all done that that's we were
I get to do MVC app that we are going to
sprinkle some beer stars my PFS on top
and it will it will all work magically
using beer star stuff underneath and
yeah I preparing for that for the last
two weeks so more concretely pierced our
app could encryption in transmission and
at rest so basic stuff like we have keys
reading right keys we can use the key to
encrypt and verified
they signature from the right key on all
the deltas that are on the network I so
the Delta is never is always stored
encrypted in signs so have at the same
time encryption at rest while we have
encryption at transmission so this is
this is whether this is part of the
protocol now we also support unencrypted
paths for public public for pads now
encrypted colored collaborations or
public collaborations so no keys here
here there is no encryption at at rest
by default if you want you can pass in a
function that will encrypt the data this
is our pure star app functionality so in
progress
I've been doing some performance tests
and some related performance
improvements not only performance but
actually some actual verifiable behavior
when these forms are very big and so I
bet it's been very helpful to do that I
think it's more or less parallel to what
much has been doing for pure pads load
tests but it's very specific to the pier
star app and once and pure pad also I
think needs low tests because it has a
particular app that has particular use
of the network but I'm going I'm doing
like a very generic use case for pure
syrup and doing some basic benchmarks on
on how it scales when when switch forms
right now I'm hitting a CPU limit but on
the client side right now so good news
were not the bottom line is my my
computer and it's not it's not it's not
the WebSocket star server with which I
was afraid it would be so good news
there still some stuff to do there
also supports and general improvements
on pure star add on pure pattern
integrating pure syrup in it as I said
and I'm doing some basic stuff that just
to exercise some parts of pure syrup
like showing remote cursors of each user
which are not part of the strategy it's
just part of the gossip
so I'm shoving the cursors and markers
on on the gossip protocol on pure syrup
and I have a working demo which I can
bring up later if or I could do now if
someone has if no-one has a demo does
anyone have a demo
no I don't have any will be really cool
to fear
okay cool so you're mine cool so I have
a pattern that I had been working on so
I'm watching this to met with Chado yeah
they're negative syncing so so they're
syncing between each other and I think
yeah
so I have I have the here the cursor the
remote cursors which I can show well you
can correlate to the user here at 1 P 2
2 this guy also has a cursor here yeah
I'm changing the cursor I can also have
markers yeah marker so it's again it's
marking here yes it should all be
thinking so this you're curious as I
said the cursors are not part of charity
they are just being gossiped between all
the peers you know and over here to add
that to this charity even though we're
using Delta but dr. step by step jeez
there's we're trimming the deltas or
word the overhead of having more deltas
is is not really relevant but anyway
this is just regular size the capacity
that pierced our app has for doing it
networking cryptic opposite that in this
case because we have the keys
because I've been passed here on URLs so
this is the name of the pad which is a
unique name and then we have the keys
here which is the read in the right key
I can also share I can also share the
read-only link so if I just do a read
only link I should be able to
even though I'm online
should we only be able to follow I
shouldn't be able to do a bit I'm typing
here and whoops and the other the other
note should be receiving the subversive
in the updates but in a way with only
fashion so yeah my PC fans are screaming
on but but yeah so and I cannot edit
anything because I have a read only if I
try to edit the certainty here the other
ears would reject my messages because
they're not signed and encryptions
well if they even if they could be
encrypted they are not being signed with
the right key because I don't have the
right key right so yeah that's my demo
any questions
I really cool really nice I was I asked
him that in a chat whether the coursers
are color coded so the each user has a
collar or exactly I forgot to mention
that
so there's yeah they're color coded so
so if I you can see if I it's like here
I said like you
well UI is not is really poor yet but if
I select here I can see that it is
petrol one that did this marker here and
Pedro two here so it's color coded using
the pure IG you can see here oh sorry
I'm not sharing am i sharing I'm not
sharing sorry all right
let me share again
you see my screen yeah cool so as I was
saying as you can see Patrick Hubert
1.02
are these color-coded I hear my
selection here this color coding here so
I can see who it is the UI is not is not
the best yet but the the backend is is
is working the color code is like a very
simple function that gets the pure ID
and then gets and then gets appear I do
you have any running buffer that puts a
corresponding color it's using an NPM
package does that answer your question
no yep cool yes thank you boys so
hopefully in two weeks we'll be using
pure bad word cursors and markers for
the next meeting cool any generic
questions or issues and I have one about
reactive server taking so long there is
this uh nabunzel called passages maybe
get one could be used instead of web
pack on you reacted because it caches
things on the file system
so it does not have to always recompile
everything when the server is restarted
oh it caches between between restarts oh
I didn't know that that's really useful
thank you a parcel yeah I have I heard
about it I'm not really important right
but but I will check it out definitely
and to speed up then
good question hey really nice thank you
for showing that to us
Oh welcome what's up
I didn't realize you were sorry yeah
just kinda looking yeah I did have a
question I was wondering have you guys
does this have any relationship to the
orbit TV project it's also using a lot
of CITT functionality yeah orbit not
sure about the internals how their
charities and its use your star but I
don't know how active the project is but
it yeah I do just charities that it's
all so I know you share additional PFS
that's that's this one now basically
yeah so so it's it's it's well III read
already coded like while it like a year
ago but a bit of the codes year ago not
sure what the status on on that project
is music was really interesting it was
what I think was the first project to
reduce your duties on top of the offense
there was a chance at charcoal or beam
chance I think it's being pretty
actively maintained okay I think that
they've kind of taken approach to see
idt's where they base everything on a
log on struct essentially replicable or
growing the array so for example when
they implement a key value store it's
essentially just a bunch of add and
delete operations and so if you want to
overwrite a value in the store you
standard delete and then a net right
but yeah obviously it's not exactly this
new DT in the sense that you guys are
building CID T's
could be an opportunity doesn't need to
be Delta by is that like the ones we're
using yeah it could be an operation by
charity the port of thing means is that
all of them converge to the same value
the independent of the order of the
messages that I received if it's a
charity if it does that it's a charity
but we try to escape the the operations
charity because there's there's a bunch
of things so namely operation trimming
so being able to decide when an
operation is a longer relevant and in
can discard it locally and also fast
booting a remote node so we had to
synchronize all the logs all the
operations to a new new nose even though
the current general state could be very
small
we had to synchronize all the operations
from from the beginning there's ways
around that but they are more or less
complex it involves causal a principle
called
determining cause instability not
appears we can do that without consensus
but since since there's a bunch of
inherent problems of on operation by
strategies we solid decided to explore
Delta step by Sierra T's I'm not sure if
you're familiar with the concepts there
yeah I am and I read a couple of the
white papers that I was looking through
your code and I think that makes sense
and the one thing I was thinking about
where it might be helpful to use orbit
is we were mentioning my email maybe
using a or using some kind of
persistence layer and it might it might
work for that use case correct we it has
a hazard log I'm not sure so right now
we're using
we're using vector to clocks to for the
protocol for the synchronization
protocol and and and if for Bitsy's is
using the same thing yes it should be
easy to to use that otherwise we
currently on Pierce tower already have
some very basics or for read-only mode
and we should then be able to after
after this easily be able to replicate
without knowing the content of the
certainty so just just to create like a
basic a basic pure that is able to
listen to and listen to messages and
persistent even now it doesn't know the
content of the messages so it will not
be able to derive a state from all the
Daltons but it will be able to persist
all the deltas so with just a matter of
having of testing that I think pure
stories is able to do that already not
sure the thing that that's probably yeah
yeah Pierce Pierce star has a few things
that petty concerns Autobots also
because of network topology so the way
it forms the gossip topology between all
the modes is in a way that is not
negative 2i p FS because ipfs the
discovery protocol once people discover
you try to connect it immediately to
wait into this flood set for gossip and
right now we're wrapping the trans to
discovery and only allowing connections
to be established between nodes in this
in a certain part of freeform well let's
say that that more complicated but each
node is not going to every node that's
that's the thing even though all nodes
between each other so we can reach any
nodes through any other ones
and so so this is basically to make this
more more scalable so if you just
dispensing ipfs to create the overlay
the topology it won't scale to to many
peers inherit so you have a kind of like
ring ring topology right exactly you you
create you only connect to certain peers
before you form a ring and then will you
know your position on the range and then
you connect to six nodes on that ring on
specific positions of of the ring like
six six is an arbitrary number but the
most important thing is that two of
those six are the next and the successor
and the successor of the successor so
that even though we make sure that we
can always move forward messages move
forward in inside the network that's the
basic concept of that so that also that
that's why peer star exists if you're
wondering okay thank you
boom any more questions
no I'll stop share alright thank you
guys for coming I hope to see you in two
weeks if not before right
bye bye
you